As mentioned before already,
Git is mainly about those code snapshots,
those commits.
And the idea is that,
as a developer,
once you made some meaningful changes to your code,
once you finished work on a certain feature
or on a bug fix
or anything like this,
you create a new snapshot,
you create a new commit.
And doing that is actually a two step process.
It all starts by running git add
and pointing at the files
that contain the changes
that should be included in that snapshot
because you control which files
and which changes should be part
of a given snapshot.
This process is called staging.
You stage the changes
that should be included in the next commit.
You define which changes should be part
of the next commit.
This command alone doesn't yet create a commit though.
Instead for doing that,
after running git add,
you have to run git commit.
This then creates a commit based
on the changes that have been staged.
And over time, you can create more
and more commits to reflect your different code changes,
new features,
and various bug fixes you might have implemented.
And the idea behind having all these different commits
and this history of commits is,
of course, that you can then go back
to an older commit whenever you need to,
for example, to revert a change.
But I'll get back to that in a second.
So git add and git commit are used
in conjunction to create a commit
and we have this separation
between these two commands
so that you don't necessarily have
to include all changes in all files
whenever you create a new commit.
But you can pick which changes
in which files should be part of one snapshot
and which other changes should maybe be part
of another snapshot, another commit.
So back here in our project,
we got one file in the end,
the index.html file.
And since I just initialized this project
or this Git repository,
the entire file and all its content is new.
So the changes that this file
with all its content exists.
And it makes sense
that whenever you create a new project
or you initialize a new Git repository,
you wanna create one initial snapshot
that reflects this initial state.
And in my case,
I wanna add all the changes
in this folder to this snapshot.
And in the end,
that means that I wanna add the index.html file.
Therefore, as we just learned,
we must run these two commands,
git add and thereafter, git commit.
Now, to add this index.html file
to this upcoming snapshot
which I wanna create,
I simply run git add index.html.
Now, if we had multiple files
that should be added,
there are various ways of adding all of them.
You can, for example,
separate them with a white space
and then list all the file names
if you had more than one file.
If files would be in a sub folder,
you could also specify that sub folder name
and all the files
in that sub folder would be added.
Now, there are more ways of targeting multiple files
and I'll get back to that later.
For the moment, let's just add index.html.
Now, this file is staged.
And you can see the current status
of your Git repository.
And for example, find out which files are staged
and which files are not staged
by running git status,
another key command.
This command doesn't change anything,
but it gives you some information
about the current status of this Git repository.
And if I run this command,
then I see that in this Git repository,
I'm on my main branch
and I'll get back to branches later.
This might also say master for you
instead of main,
but this does not matter.
I have no commits yet.
And I see that the changes
that will be committed
in the next commit are this new file
that was created, index.html,
which is a new file in this project,
in this case here.
And that I have some files and folders
which are currently not tracked,
so which won't be part of the next commit.
In my case, that's this .vscode/ folder
and all the content inside of it.
And that is just the way I want it
because I do not want to add this folder
or file to this first snapshot here in my case.
So now, this is staged.
This file or this change to be precise is staged.
To now create that snapshot, that commit,
we can run the git commit command.
If we do that though,
an editor will open up here in the Terminal
because every commit you create
needs a message that describes the commit.
That message should typically be pretty short and concise,
but some message is needed.
Now, you could use this editor here
in the Terminal to write that message,
but using that in Terminal editor
could be a bit clunky
if you have never worked with it before.
Therefore, I'll just close this Terminal
and open a new Terminal here.
And instead of running git commit like this,
I'll add a special flag,
a special option to it,
the M option with -m.
And then between double quotes,
I type my message like, for example,
"initial commit"
and the message should be short.
And this flag, this -m flag
is meant to leave short commit messages.
So now with that,
I can hit Enter.
And now, this first commit was created
with that message.
And I also see a summary of the commit here,
what changed and what was included
in that commit.
You can thereafter run git log to get a list,
a chronologically ordered list
of all the commits you have thus far.
And at the moment,
that's just one commit here.
You also see the automatically created ID,
the unique identifier of that commit.
And of course, this will make more sense
once we start adding more commits here.
You can ignore that part for the moment.
I'll get back to this head thing
in just a second.